.TH CONDENSE 1 "2025-06-28" "0.1.0" "Condense Manual"
.SH NAME
condense \- high-performance CLI proxy that filters command output to save AI tokens
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B condense
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR...]
.br
.B condense gain
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B condense init
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B condense config
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B condense
is a CLI proxy that sits between your AI coding assistant and the shell.
It intercepts commands, executes the real binary, filters the output using
one of 12 compression strategies, and returns a compact summary to the AI
context window \- saving 60\-90% of tokens on typical workloads.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-vv ", " \-vvv
Increase verbosity. \fB\-v\fR shows normal summary with more detail,
\fB\-vv\fR includes file lists, \fB\-vvv\fR shows maximum verbosity.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-ultra\-compact
Maximum compression: single\-line ASCII icon output.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Print help text and exit.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B condense gain
Show token savings analytics. See
.BR "condense gain \-\-help"
for options including \fB\-\-graph\fR, \fB\-\-history\fR, \fB\-\-top N\fR,
\fB\-\-scope project\fR, and \fB\-\-format json\fR.
.TP
.B condense init
Install AI tool hooks. Use \fBcondense init \-g\fR to install for all supported
tools, \fBcondense init \-\-show\fR to check status, \fBcondense init \-\-remove\fR
to uninstall.
.TP
.B condense config
Read and write Condense configuration. Use \fBcondense config \-\-list\fR,
\fBcondense config \-\-get KEY\fR, \fBcondense config \-\-set KEY=VALUE\fR,
or \fBcondense config \-\-reset\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Filter git status:
.B condense git status
.TP
Filter cargo test output (failures only):
.B condense cargo test
.TP
Filter pytest (failures + summary):
.B condense pytest
.TP
Ultra-compact mode:
.B condense \-u git status
.TP
Verbose mode (includes file list):
.B condense \-vv git status
.TP
Show token savings dashboard:
.B condense gain
.TP
30\-day savings graph:
.B condense gain \-\-graph
.TP
Install AI tool hooks:
.B condense init \-g
.TP
Show config:
.B condense config \-\-list
.SH SUPPORTED COMMANDS
git, cargo, pytest, go test, npm, jest, vitest, eslint, tsc, ruff,
docker, kubectl, aws, ls, grep, rg, find, cat, make, mvn, gradle,
pip install, golangci\-lint, and more.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/condense/config.toml
User configuration file (Linux/XDG).
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application\ Support/condense/config.toml
User configuration file (macOS).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/condense/condense.db
SQLite analytics database (Linux/XDG).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/condense/tee/
Directory where raw command output is saved on failure.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Condense propagates the exit code of the proxied command verbatim. If git status
exits 128 (not a git repository), condense also exits 128.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR cargo (1),
.BR pytest (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Condense Java port. Original Rust implementation by bitan-del.
https://github.com/bitan-del/condense
.SH LICENSE
Apache License 2.0
